what's in here what does it do and can i
make it from scratch it's the stuff
inside your ingredients way back in the
day nail polish is actually pretty
simple
the Egyptians used henna and the Chinese
used a mixture of egg white beeswax
gelatin vegetable dye this is a beat and
gum arabic today we're talking about
regular old nail polish which it turns
out is neither regular nor that old
anyway compared to the nail polish of
the Ancients nail polish of today has a
lot more ingredients because it has to
do a lot more things first and foremost
the color has to speak to some deep
longing within your soul and second that
color can't fade third you need to be
able to brush it onto your nail evenly
and smoothly fourth it needs to be thin
enough to form a film without globbing
but fifth it needs to be thick enough to
not run everywhere six that needs to
stick to your nail seven that needs to
dry hard and glossy and keep that
appearance ate that needs to be somewhat
resistant to water and oil and whatever
else might mess up your manicure nine
that needs to avoid shipping and 10 that
needs to dry somewhat quickly who that
is a lot of stuff but basically we just
want our nail polish to be easier and
more convenient than what the Egyptians
and Chinese used so let's break this
down
first up are the coloring agents or the
pigments the pigments are really really
really tiny particles that are suspended
in the Polish now the pigments are
fascinating and similar to what you
might find in a lipstick we did a whole
episode about this and i will post a
link in the description then there are
the solvents ethyl acetate and butyl
acetate now chemically these guys are
esters and they evaporate quickly and
that's why you don't have to wait hours
for your nail polish to dry
incidentally most of that nail polish
you smell esters next up is
nitrocellulose which is a polymer that's
made from cotton nitrocellulose is what
forms that hard film on the outside of
your nail and because of its ability to
form these hard films
it's used in varnishes for all kinds of
stuff like playing cards or guitars in
fact in the 1920s it was used as the
base for a lot of car paints
so today's cars use something different
anyway nitrocellulose is also quick
drying and pretty cheap but it actually
doesn't stick to nails all that well and
it's kind of brittle so manufacturers
add other polymers like twosome I'd
formaldehyde resin which is not
formaldehyde to make your polish
classier and stick better and actually
if you see polly something something or
something something copolymer on an
ingredients label usually that polymers
there to tweak the properties of the
Polish in a way that makes sense for the
particular type that you are buying then
there's camper which comes from asian
evergreen trees and chemically is a mix
of terpenoids a camper is a plasticizer
it's used to make the Polish a little
bit more flexible and less likely to
chip and you can actually see this if
you take a thin layer of polish and peel
it off some wax paper gently and if you
look right there you can see it's kind
of stretchy so far so good but there are
still the conflicting requirements of
being thin enough to paint an even coat
and yet thick enough to not drip
everywhere plus you want your pigments
to be suspended in the Polish and not
immediately settle down to the bottom
now part of the way that manufacturers
achieve all of these goals is by
balancing the amounts of all the
ingredients particularly the solvents
polymers and pigments to get sort of in
the ballpark of the right consistency
but the other and chemically magical way
is by using a molecule called sterile
conium Hector I or its cousin sterile
conium bentonite both of these guys come
from clay and they have this weird but
awesome property where solutions of them
if they're just sitting there will be
thick or gel like but the second you
apply a force like for example brushing
them onto your nail they get in a lot of
foods actually have this property like
ketchup does for example if you're
interested check out the links i will
post a description
no check out the description i'll post a
link and finally there's benzophenone
one which chemically is similar to the
active ingredients in sunscreen turns
out the sunscreen is not there for you
or your nails
it's actually there to protect color UV
light from the Sun can actually degrade
colors in nail polish so benzophenone
one keeps them from fading this point
you're probably wondering how the hell
am I gonna make me
I'll polish from natural or even
remotely natural ingredients after all
most homemade nail polish homemade is
actually just adding pigments to a
premade clear base so I just quit
what's on this one I'm going to go back
to basics all the way back to the
Chinese recipe which actually is not
even a recipe it's just a list of
ingredients specifically egg-white
gelatin beeswax gum arabic and vegetable
dyes in this case beats that i blended
and then strained through a coffee
filter now looking at these ingredients
you would think they are nothing like
what goes into a modern nail polish but
chemically they're actually not that
different
so gum arabic is a resin like
nitrocellulose or to solemnize
formaldehyde resin it helps form films
egg-white that's mostly protein and
water but also probably helps form films
along with the gum arabic gelatin is a
thickener just like stereo podium Hector
right and beeswax is a plasticizer like
camper so when you look at it like this
really the biggest difference between
ancient polishes and modern ones is that
the ancient polishes did not have
quickly evaporating solvents but that's
okay i'm sure we'll figure something out
so let's try this so because this is a
list of ingredients and not an actual
recipe i just made one up i'm using
components from jelly and custard
recipes so we'll see what happens
okay so there we go nail polish I think
that's been sitting for a while and now
it's ready to test want to take my cue
tip dip it in here and a nice amount of
color first test doesn't really drip so
we're doing good
actually that is really good it's not
dripping at all so passes the first test
kinda liquidy alright too liquidy it's
pulling all over my mail and I can
actually see some stuff that's not
dissolve that's probably gonna Arabic
but i am going to keep painting anyway
and maybe if I just leave it long enough
and then blow-dry it something good will
happen I who knows
let's try this
ok so this is not coming off on my
finger when it's dry which is a great
sign it is kind of chunky which doesn't
feel that great but it kind of reflects
light in a weird and interesting way
which I don't hate
now the real test is will this come off
underwater and there is only one way to
find out
here's some water let's do this
just gently rubbing it is definitely
coming off we just like be die it is
water-soluble this is absolutely coming
off so basically you will be fine until
you went to wash your hands so i give
this overall three out of 10
I mean it's not zero it painted my nail
but it's basically useless i might as
well just take a beat died and put that
on my nails if you guys have any ideas
on how to improve this recipe please let
me know in the comments or hit me up on
Twitter all right